(audience cheering
and applauding)
- So what's fun
sometimes is, I mean,
we're done taping now, so.
(audience laughing)
Now we can say the real things.
- Now we can really talk.
- Now we can really get down.
(Kamala laughing)
Now we can really get down.
I have one question, and
then, think of questions
that you have as well,
and then I'll come to you
in the audience, and
please, this is someone
who's running for
president, so don't be like,
what's your favorite color?
Like, think of a real question,
(audience laughing)
and then you'll get to ask it.
I have one question,
which is a silly one,
but it goes to what we
spoke about earlier,
in terms of what
people consider scandal
for everyone who's not Trump.
- Yeah.
- You are on The Breakfast
Club and they asked you
if you'd ever smoked
weed, and you said yes,
and then, someone said to you,
oh, what music were
you listening to?
Someone said, what
were you listening to
when you were getting high?
Everyone asked you four
questions at the same time.
- Right, right.
- And they came out, and
you said, I listen to Snoop,
I listen to Cardi B,
I listen to Tupac,
and then, Fox News
and stuff came out,
and they were like,
there was no Tupac
when you were in college.
- Yeah, right.
(audience laughing)
It was crazy.
It was literally, my
communications team said to me,
there's thing that's going on
out there that has happened,
and I was like, I
thought they were joking,
I literally thought
they were joking.
I don't, listen, I don't know,
are people just bored?
Or are they not
understanding complex issues,
and so they have to
be distracted by those
that really have no difference
in the lives of other people?
- I genuinely think
it's that people
have gotten used to it.
I think, unlike Trump,
because regular politicians,
as in normal people
don't have the scandals
that he does, you don't
have a porn star, so.
- Right.
(audience laughing)
- So we have to focus on--
- Right.
- [Trevor] Tupac.
My part of that, the
scandal for me was,
how were you listening
to Tupac and enjoying him
as a prosecutor?
Because he said some
things about prosecutors
in his songs, and
I was like, damn,
were you never personally
offended by any of that?
- No, of course not.
- No?
- No, I mean, and listen.
I mean, Tupac also sang
about the love of a mother.
- Oh, that's true.
- Remember that?
- That's true, Dear Mama.
- I mean, Dear Mama, right?
- That's true.
- I mean, she would be,
you know, she loved him.
- Right.
- And so,
that was the range of
Tupac, and Tupac also had
his Bay Area connection,
and so there was a pride
that was associated with
that, but Tupac was prolific.
He really was, and he
died far too young.
I mean, you know, he, it
would be interesting to see
where that whole genre went,
had he lived longer.
- Huh, interesting.
- Because he was so smart,
in the way that he understood
politics, social justice
issues, you know,
and if you know his background,
his family was active before.
- [Trevor] Yes, yes.
- So he actually was speaking
to large numbers of people
with a historical
context, and some idea
about where we should be, but
also, really well-articulate
about the social injustice
that was happening
at that moment, which
included the war on drugs,
which included what
was going on in terms
of massive incarceration of
young black men in particular,
and he spoke to that.
- He really did.
- And he was right.
- [Trevor] Now I'm imagining
Tupac just around today,
as like a businessman.
(audience laughing)
- I mean, it'd be interesting.
- It would be interesting,
no, 'cause a lot of them
have become very
like, I mean, you look
at how rap has changed
and evolved, you know,
just picture Tupac
just in the boardroom.
- Well, you know,
I mean, everybody.
- My shareholders and my
plan is to pay you back.
(audience laughing)
Did you guys think
about your questions?
What do we have?
You were jumping up there.
You were jumping up hard.
- Yeah, so that's, that's
an interesting point.
Here's how I think about it.
First of all, especially
to your point,
in this moment, where we
have such powerful voices
that are trying to sow
hate and division among us,
I think it's really important
that we reject that,
and we reject it in a way
that also speaks the truth,
which is that the
vast majority of us
have so much more in common
than what separates us,
and I know that to be true,
and the way that I think of
it and that I talk of it,
wherever I go, whatever
the demographic
of the group I'm
speaking with is this.
I talk about it in the context
of the middle of
the night thought,
some people call it the
three in the morning thought,
other people call it
the witching hour,
you know, in the
middle of the night,
when you wake up
with that thought
that's been weighing on you,
sometimes, you wake
up in a cold sweat.
- That's when Trump tweets.
- Well--
(audience laughing)
Right, and so for that reason,
some of us wake up, just,
you know, right, exactly.
(Trevor laughing)
Panicked, but for the
vast majority of us,
when we wake up in the
middle of the night
with that thought, one, it
is never through the lens
of the party with which
we are registered to vote,
it is never through the
lens of some demographic
a pollster put us in, and
for the vast majority of us,
when we wake up
thinking that thought,
it has to do with one of
just a very few things,
our personal health, the
health of our children,
or our parents, can I
get a job, keep a job,
pay the bills by the
end of the month,
retire with dignity?
The vast major, or students,
can I pay off those
student loans?
So many families in America,
can I help my relative
get off of the opioids
that have addicted them?
The vast majority of us
have so much more in common
than what separates
us, and so part of how
we get to that place
is we start with that
as our premise and really
know it in our heart,
in our mind, in our soul,
and then go from there,
and it's gonna be about
unifying the country
around the commonalities
that we have.
There are certain people we'll
never be able to talk with
on any extreme spectrum, right?
But I'll tell you, as
another kind of story
about the campaign
trail, yesterday, I
was in New Hampshire.
And when I was
there, the reporters,
the first line of
questioning I got was
you're in New Hampshire,
we heard you're not gonna
come to New Hampshire.
We thought you weren't gonna try
and compete in New Hampshire,
and what no one said
but the inference was,
well, the demographic of New
Hampshire is not who you are
in terms of your race
and who you are in terms,
and I was like, no, I am
competing in New Hampshire.
I'm gonna be here, and I'm
gonna tell you something.
To the point of the
universality and the commonality
of the message, I got to
New Hampshire, Trevor,
there was a line
around the block,
there were 1500 people who
showed up for our event.
- You had overflow,
we saw that, yeah.
- But, and what that tells me,
it reinforces for
me the commonality,
that the demographics
don't matter.
When it comes down to it,
it is going to be about
that when we're waking up
in the middle of the night
or at that kitchen table,
you know, after dinner,
trying to pay the bills
and get through the week,
the biggest issues that
concern us are the same issues,
and that is not to say that
we also should not talk about
and don't need to deal with
the issue of race in America,
the issue of sexism and
homophobia, transphobia,
antisemitism, because
those all are real, too.
And if nobody was
clear about that,
then Charlottesville and
the Tree of Life synagogue
and Mother Emanuel Church should
make it clear to everybody
that we still have
a lot of work to do
on those issues, as well.
But I find that most people,
regardless of their demographic
want to have that
conversation and are willing
to have that conversation
in our country right now.
(audience applauding)
- Let me,
we'll take one from this side.
Yes, sir?
- Yep.
- [Kamala] Path, and a path.
- [Trevor] How do you?
That's a great question.
(audience applauding)
- Right, right.
So first of all, Jesus,
thank you for your courage
to speak up and speak
out at this moment,
(audience applauding)
and to do what you're doing.
'Cause that's really important.
And I think part of how
we will get to the place
that we need to be, but also,
the place we're going to get,
history is gonna show that
there are a bunch of people
right now who are on the
wrong side of history
on this issue of immigration.
The reality is that we are
a nation of immigrants.
It has been a source
of our strength,
and part of the way that we
do is that we have a plan
and we stick to
the plan, but we,
Congress has not passed a bill
around comprehensive
immigration reform,
and by every indication,
this president wouldn't sign it.
The way we get there
is we have to pass
comprehensive
immigration reform.
We have to put in place the
rules that are consistent,
and equally applied to everyone,
around how people get on the
path towards citizenship,
how people apply, what
are the qualifications?
As you know, this is also
not, the immigrant population
coming to the United
States is not a monolith.
There are people who
come with H1B visas,
there are people who
are DACA, like yourself,
young people who, you still
had to qualify for DACA,
you went through a process
and you passed that process,
that's why you got
the DACA coverage,
and we have to
keep our promises.
Part of the failure of
our system right now
is that this administration
is not keeping
America's promise to
you as a DACA student
or a DACA young person,
and we're not keeping
our promise to who we
are as a nation by having
a meaningful path
for citizenship
around comprehensive
immigration reform.
But what awe have to do
is Congress has to act
and the president
has to sign the bill.
- I will ask you one question
to that before you leave.
There was a time when
the negotiation landed
in and around a wall
in exchange for DACA,
and it was give us
this one time payment,
and we will give you
DACA in exchange.
You were one of the
three senators, I think,
who voted against that.
- Yes.
- Some would say, Senator
Harris, why wouldn't you give
Trump his wall in exchange
for all of these people
to receive the DACA and to
stay in the United States?
- [Kamala] Because
I did not agree
with holding these kids ransom.
- There you go.
(audience applauding)
- And that's what that was.
That's what that was.
Period.
We made a promise to these kids.
He can tell you, in a
longer conversation,
how he went through a
process of answering
a multitude of questions,
about the circumstances
of his arrival, about
what kind of life
he is living right now.
Is he living a productive life?
Has he ever committed a crime?
They went through
a whole series,
and when they vetted
and passed, we told them
that they would
receive protection,
and one of the most important
aspects of what we told them
is we told them, if you answer
these questions to qualify,
we will not share that
information with ICE,
we will not deport you,
that's what we told
these young people, and now,
this administration is
prepared to break that promise
and share that
information with ICE.
That is wrong, and I'm
not gonna support that.
I'm not gonna support that,
and that's why I
voted against it.
(audience applauding)
(upbeat music)